We do
not know.
I think you're not
going to be able to do that.
Yes.
But this is
lady.
When they're on two
I think we'll have a little I think I'm gonna
think
That is
Is this session be recorded or something?
Uh recording.
Because mobile cato other can do
Good morning.
So can we be without the screens just the main screen here?
Can I have your attention please everybody?
Can you turn your laptops, keep your mobile inside these.
Thank you.
Uh so Sukhwani, will you be doing an introduction or how do we go?
I mean Sure, I can start.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for uh
training my name is
partner from bhajaj uh these are our uh esteemed trainers um
hello, these are our trainers.
They will give their introduction.
I would prefer that.
We are doing a WCHE compliance training today.
That's our RBI mandate.
And yeah, we have started off with breakfast.
We're starting the training at 10.
We'll have a quick high tea break for 10 minutes at 11:30.
1:15 will be your lunch break.
3.30 will be your high tea break again.
And by finish we should be ending.
If there's any questions, you can raise your hands and Dr.
Ranjali will be helping you, guiding you through.
And yeah, I think that's about it.
We'll in between we'll also be circulating your uh attendance forms and assessments to
I think that's all from my end over to you Dr.
And thank you thanks so much so we are very pleased to be here today and uh partnering with Bajaj Finance it's been a pleasure because
we are looking forward to having a more robust and accessible
websites and apps what Baj Finances have and also your learning towards making your systems the work that you do to be more accessible.
Before we do our introduction we want you to uh we have yourself just give your name and
in one word, what do you understand by digital accessibility?
One word.
Okay.
So digital accessibility are two words, but just one word.
So your name and then followed by the word so we'll start with this table first from this gentleman yeah good morning actually
said uh
digital
You're not aware of.
Okay, thank you.
You keep setting up
and I would like to be more.
Yes.
Hi Akam Shah.
Uh I'm the word associated is
easy.
Hi, my name is Aksan and the word I I guess is visual appearance.
Very good.
Okay.
Hi Rikwajad up this side.
Uh I'll say the word will be inclusive.
Wonderful.
Yes.
Hi, I'm Saloni.
I don't know how to frame it in a single word, but I can say it.
Available for everyone.
Yes.
Hi, I am Sheshya Sudaswal.
Uh
Accessible for all?
Okay.
Hi, I'm Sri Hanshru.
Uh I'd say K3.
K3.
K-Tree.
Okay.
You guys come forward.
My name is Kmadujan.
I can't see you.
Access details about seeing, yes.
My name is Manduja and the word is user-friendly.
It's repeated.
Barrier-free.
Okay.
Hi I am Sandy Bishan.
I think the word may
improve experience for everyone.
Four words.
Okay.
Alright.
So before the mic comes to you, please think about your word, one word.
My word would be readability.
Readability.
Yeah, hi.
This is where.
So it's accessible to all.
Three words.
Hi.
This is Rajesh.
It's easily understandable.
Okay.
Two words.
I turn the side.
Uh I think the word would be inclusive like a gentleman over there.
Okay.
Alright.
Hello, Ashish.
Yes, please.
Hi, this is a little uh reachable, I guess.
Yes, repeat it, but yes, good.
Okay.
Hi, Shumo.
Uh basically all words anyone can use it.
Usable for everyone.
Hi, my name is Anvita and the word is uh interactive.
Perfect.
Yes.
Hi everyone.
Hi Doctor.
My name is Meek and the one that I think would suit this is democratization.
Oh, okay.
Hi the week.
I think uh it should be a comedy name.
Yes.
Being later in the line is getting a bit difficult, but I say goodly.
I guess.
Yes.
Very good.
Hi, Kriesha this side.
Uh I think the one word for me uh would be universal.
Uh Hello, I will.
Uh the word would be comfort comfortable for the all.
Okay, comfortable.
Yes.
Hello, my name is Nakshita.
I guess one word could be uh sanity.
Okay.
Hi, this is Vijaya.
Uh I think my word will be maintaining standards.
Okay.
Yes.
Hi I I'm Agni.
Uh one word I would think about is convenience.
Okay.
Hi, I'm Aishanisai.
Uh I'm Korakita Last.
So uh all the word I was thinking about has already been used.
So I think it is recruited but usabil,ity it is usable parallel.
Okay, perfect.
Yes, usability.
Anyone else?
My name is Rahul.
So my word is essential.
Wonderful.
That's all?
Alright.
So can we have the mic please here?
Can you two, yes.
Uh
channel.
Okay.
Introduce yourself first.
Very good morning, all of you.
I'm architect Radika Gopina and I'm co-director and technical help for Samathiya.
So for me, one word is user-centric.
I always focus on user only.
Good morning everyone.
Hi, I'm Djakavardi.
In short I am quite DC, so it would be good for me.
And I think the best word that came out from you also and I also believe in usability.
Perfect.
Dr.
Ajidea Garwal, founder and executive director Samatkim Center for Universal Accessibility.
Um for me, users first.
So I think the first word that I really hooked up is accommodating by Vive.
You get a virtual chocolate from me.
All of you will get throughout the day.
So uh you get the first one I think users first user beauty user centric what whatever you're looking at it's not about you it's about them and eventually it becomes us right so when you say us, think about who you are currently, what you are going to be uh with your aging processes, how you're going to look forward to using the interface, any system app, any kind of a website, portal, e-corpus, whatever you do.
You just need to see who is the user, right?
And that's very important.
Okay, so uh we'll start the workshop and there will be technical details, but I really have a submission and a request to everybody.
Only one screen today.
Which screen?
Sure?
Okay.
So whenever
training workshops, I've done more than 35,000.
I put it on the record, yes.
And uh I've been collecting mobiles.
These tennis is our hobby.
So be careful about your mobile, right?
And I've got a Jasuz.
My Jasu's is this your hand, raise your hand.
So his name is DC Jasu's.
So he will be going around you round the table and see if you are doing a WhatsApp, looking at every he's going to pick up your mobile and bring back to me.
So I will take all of these back to Belly.
Okay?
Alright, so no more mobiles and no more screens, just one screen.
This is a very important training because we are just not touching about the technical part of it, which I'm sure you are looking at as designers, putting at the you know things which are visually appealing, but you're understanding the point that what is the RBI or what is the RPWT Act talking about.
So I'll just quickly go to who we are because uh Sukhmany said that we need to introduce ourselves.
We are an organization founded in 1991.
It's an organization of persons with disability, and the first, the very first in the country that talked about technicalities as a matter of right.
In these 35 years, we have created a lot of accessibility standards, and today that we are going to talk about the WCAG standards or the BIS standards, something that we have put together with the Bureau of Indian Standards, and we are going to touch upon each and every part of it looking at the websites, portals and apps, as I said, the digital interface.
Savatam has a special consultative status with UN United Nations Ecosop since 2015.
That means if our governments, central government or state government
are not uphelding the rights of people with disabilities, then we can lation with them to see that there is a kind of intervention from the United Nations to our to our state parties that is our governments so that they can do the needful.
So we have an upper hand beside what we do with the government of India.
I am advisor to the Prime Minister's Office on Accessible India campaign.
I'm going to talk about it.
We have an in-house interdisciplinary team of professionals.
Radika just introduced herself as an architect, but she's also a tech team lead.
Mr.
Chakravati is a universal design expert, again uh first of his kind in the United Nations as well as the Asia-Pacific region, and he works on the accessibility to look at the users first design, right, we are almost everybody in the submission team.
We are trained by the United Nations, we have accessibility auditors with assemblities, and we also have universal design specialists, as I said, and we are the first ones again in the country who talked about not only the physical spaces but also the digital interfaces to be accessible.
So that's our niche, and we are very proud of it.
Now coming to understanding disability, this might sound a little boring to you, but please understand out of seven people in the country one person has a kind of a disability which can be visible, which can be invisible, so we need to understand whom are we designing for.
So then people like me who are using a major are visible disciples, but somebody like Mr.
Chakov or TDC he, is using uh his glasses, which is a high power glasses.
He is with low vision.
But when you look at him, you can't make it out.
He trips over things.
So when he was just crossing this cable cover, I was just pointing out to him be, careful, you can trip over.
If the light is not good, illumination is not good, he might not be able to see small fonts.
So you cannot find out a person unless you assume that the person has any kind of a visible or invisible disability, and this is what I am going to touch upon.
But I am going to take you through the different models of disability and how accessibility became a right for them.
The very first model that came up was medical model, followed by a charity model, and then the social and finally the human rights model.
So, what are these models?
The medical model, which is the you know a model which came up around somewhat around 1990s in our country but if you talk about us canada and any other you know uh european countries it came much before around in the 1800s.
So what happened?
People used to look at people with disabilities as you know patients, quote unquote.
We need services in terms of rehabilitation.
We need services in terms of being you know taken care of.
So everybody started looking for a cure for us.
So moment I'm using a feature, it's also these days till now uh if I'm traveling with a public transport people will come to me and say ma'am there's a cure for you you know you can't walk so I will give you a kind of oil that if you put on your legs you will start running and I say I don't want to run, I just want to communicate and be as equal as you are.
So somebody use the word equality when they you when you said accessibility.
That's exactly the point.
Then equally what you do or what Zenzi does or what our young you know toddlers these days, children, they are very good at uh each kind of app or any kind of uh technical interface.
We are not so good.
We are still learning.
And if you look at our grandparents, they are still you know challenged by looking at the things.
So we are not finding cure for them.
We are trying to train them to use a software or we are trying to just train them to use a mobile phone which is a touch screen phone.
Remember that older phones, Windows keypads, right?
And these days we are struggling with our older pads.
But think about people with mutual impairment.
How difficult is this for them?
How will they use a death phone?
It's very difficult.
So instead of getting us a doctor to treat us, train us, provide your systems, your applications in a way that they are more user-friendly.
And user friendly is a term point for life's life, life cycle approach.
What is a life cycle approach?
Somebody?
What the the actions that we generally do in our daily lives?
So like if we have like uh if you're using it and like maybe some I don't I'm not getting the example, but uh trying to application uh which is similar to maybe the items that we see, like a hamburger so why, M L, something like that.
Right.
So uh you just touched upon it but not uh really there.
Life cycle approach is looking from a child to an old age person to a super senior citizen.
So a child may be starting from age of four to five years, and a super senior citizen could be around 85-90 years.
So that is the life cycle approach.
We also call it transgenerational approach.
Look at each person, how will they use it?
So if if you say hamburger, there is a burger icon, and then it's not written hamburger English Shibhi or any translation uh other language, but a burger.
So everybody will connect with it.
So that's a life cycle of growth that you are deciding for somebody who cannot comprehend it.
So the medical model doesn't look at it.
Medical model just look at it to fix you.
Right?
To fix the person rather than fixing the application.
Okay?
Alright, we go to the charity model.
So the charity model is the next phase of it with which comes with a pretty en charity outlook.
So, for example, if I'm looking at my phone and I'm not able to do it, I'll say um DC will you please see I'm not able to start.
So he can say, wait, let me just do it for you, and that's not.
He should say, Let me just teach you or train you how to use it.
So the charity model is doing for them
and then in you know in return get something back.
You understand India everybody?
All of you?
Okay.
So the charity model comes with the thing, obligation, a san karna.
And this is where it is wrong.
You know, it's not like a badla, you are not going to take something back from the person.
Then comes the social model.
There's a neat little bit of change.
People starting understanding that you know there's a whole bunch of people with disabilities hidden, visible, not visible, but they are around, right?
So the social model started looking at you know if you have I'm just giving you often example, if you have steps, you provide rep.
Correct.
This is a very simple example.
So if you are looking at the banners in an interface in a application in a portal, what they will do?
Fix those barriers.
Shota shota come too.
Right?
But they are not looking at holistically what needs to be done.
And they are just wrong.
So the social module was something which was accepted by people with disabilities but they did not really liked it.
Because there's again there's a word that we call special, quote unquote.
Treat us as special but not as equal.
What do we want?
Equality.
Equality, obviously.
So then came the human rights model.
So the human rights model look at you know equality of rights, inclusion, participation, empowerment.
When we are talking about accessibility, the word that I would like to point is empowerment.
Empower with your design in such a way that we do not have to depend upon anyone else to do it.
The hardware part of it, a phone, Android or iPhone, doesn't matter.
The design that you do it matters because a design can empower or a design can fail in a way that it makes us quote unquote handicapped.
I don't like that word because that is derivatory.
The word that has been coined by the law and by the system at large, and people want it is person with disability, not handicap.
But if your design is such that we have to depend upon somebody and take an obligation and feel pitied and look at this at as a patient and not as a person, then your design fails.
Okay, so now coming to the final version of it is that there's a paradigm shift in disability from medical to social model to the rights-based model, and the rights-based model says design for us.
So think about the person who is last on the pyramid, not on the top of the pyramid, the last of the pyramid, which is the most vulnerable, the most you know, person who cannot comprehend your design details, your color, your font size, the contrast, or the pictures.
Design for them.
Okay?
Alright.
Any questions so far?
Anything that bugs you and say the they have inquiry.
Okay?
Good to go?
Alright.
Now what I'm opening up now is a Pandora box.
And this Pandora box is something you know it's only in India.
In India, the government of India has identified 21 types of disabilities.
So it's just not one person using a wheelchair or one person wearing a high, you know, uh lens glasses, but it is about the 21 types of disabilities which are actually put up into six categories physical disabilities, you know, which is like obvious a physical part of it.
Where you know a leg would be acuted.
Okay, a person has cerebral palsy, a mobility uh challenge.
There could be people like me who are using wheelchair.
There could be people who will be using walkers or crutches, right?
Walking cane, walking stick.
Then next category is visual impairment.
What do you understand by visual impairment?
Who could be here?
Colorblind.
Perfect.
Anyone else?
Partial blindness.
That is called low vision.
Anyone else?
Night blindness.
Ninth blindness?
Ninth blindness.
Wonderful.
Anyone else?
Total blindness.
You know?
You have seen that movie Black?
Do you remember Rani Pranji?
She was blind and deaf.
That was multiple disabilities.
So that was called deaf blindness, the most challenging disability, right?
But you need to design for them, and we'll tell you how to do that, okay?
Hearing impairment.
What could be in hearing imperfect?
Somebody who can't hear or who is deaf, who cannot hear correctly.
So there could be loss of hearing and there could be total loss of hearing, right?
Two categories: mental and intellectual disabilities.
People yes, dyslexia.
So that's learning disability that comes into intellectual disability.
Anyone else?
Autism.
Autism, yes.
Anyone else?
Alzheimer's.
ADHD?
Yes.
Anyone else?
Alzheimer's?
Sorry?
No, it's not there.
Anyone else?
Schizophrenia?
Yes.
So these are some of the dissipates that fall under the mental and intellectual disabilities.
And mental disabilities is called mental illness, actually.
When I define it for the mental illness, so they could be and it's it's a spark, you know, sometimes a person acts like the so-called quote unquote normal, but sometimes the person is not able to comprehend the information which is there on your system, which you have designed, right?
So, how to tackle those kind of challenges?
The fifth group is the chronic neurological conditions and blood disorders.
So in this comes thalassemia, sickle cell, and hemophilia.
So these are the blood disorders, and neurological conditions comes like multiple sclerosis, Parkinson, multiple muscular dystrophy.
I have muscular dystrophy.
This is mother has Parkinson.
So usually old age web people have.
So for them, you know, when they are holding uh phone also or on a system, there's a kind of a you know contraction in the hands and it's a shaking hand.
So switching on or uh working on a touchscreen becomes very difficult.
So the simpler the interface is better for them.
You know, the more complex, more complicated situations will actually make them you know confuse and don't read Hamnini Katnafo.
That's usually what you hear from your grandparents.
So the dependency is increasing when you say
But they take you as you know children and they say apkardu.
But think about yourself, if you keep asking your children, they don't even have time to do that, isn't it?
And you want to be more independent.
So that is what happens in the neurological disorders.
Multiple disorder disability, I just gave an example of
deafblindness, but there could be many others like intellectual disability combination with muscular dystrophy or combination with Parkinson or any other blood-related disorders.
Now I'm just quickly going to take you back to what happens in visually, we talked about blindness, low vision, color blindness, night blindness, and many other things will come.
Auditory is deafness and hard of hearing.
Motor is inability to use a mouse, slow response time, limited fine motor controls.
This is very important.
I use mouse a lot because for me to lift my hand and use the keyboard it's very difficult.
But on the other hand, there are many people who would want to use the keyboard short keys rather than using the mouse, and I'll show you a video on that.
One of my other colleagues who is with local disability, how she uses the system.
And she's a web designer.
Right?
And I'll show you that.
The cognitive part of it comes with learning disabilities, distractivity, inability to remember or focus on large amount of information.
And when I say large amount of information, I'm going to show you one of the websites which is really complicated and complex.
Okay.
Now let's touch base on the legal framework in India.
When we have identified these 21 types of disability, the government of India is obliged to provide the rights perspective to these 21 times of disability.
What is the legal framework that they have drafted?
And this is very, very important for you to understand because there are also punitive actions, if you don't do that, and I'll touch upon that as well.
So the first one is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disability, UNCRPT.
This is extremely important for you because whatever we are talking about the WCAG guidelines, we are talking about VIS guidelines, we are talking about many other you know level E, level AA, level triple A kind of compatibility.
It emerges from UNCRT.
It's a global treaty which India has signed and ratified.
So signed and ratified means we signed it.
Government of India said we are in sync with you.
But once you ratify, that means whatever is there in the UNCRP, they have to do it for the people with disabilities.
Yes or no?
No.
Because it's going to touch upon your and pick your pocket if you don't hear me.
And there are lots of questions in the assignment which money has designed with us.
If you don't hear me properly and if you don't retain the information, you will fail in those assignments.
Do you want to fail?
Pakka?
Yes.
You're saying pakka free.
Alright.
So out of the UNCRPD came the Rights of Persons with Disability Act.
This act came first time in 1995.
But in 1995, when this act came, it was very hila dala.
You know, it's like a kind of a paper, but not usually putting into policy and implementation.
But when the UNCRPD came in 2006, then
the 1995 Act was totally revamped.
We harmonized it to UNCRPT and we made it much robust and much incrementable.
And hence it's called the Rights of Persons with Disability Act, RPWT Act 2016.
So it's not very old, just 10 years.
So you know about this act, RPW act, the salving is in the sun?
Oh my god.
Oh wonderful.
So no chocolates are food.
Let me see.
Very good.
So three chocolates to you.
Virtual Saturda Virtual S.
Sustainable Development Goals.
SDG?
Yes.
So SDG is little, you know, like what different countries have their national laws, and mixing with it, we are looking at the rights of the women, rights of the children, rights of people with disabilities, aging, how do we have inclusive education, how we have better parents to live?
Life above the land, life below the water, and many other things.
Water sanitation, many other things.
Right to information and communication.
What we are going to touch upon today is something ICT information communication technology is also put up in this.
So whatever we do in the STTs, there are 17 goals.
We are looking at each and everyone from the point of view of ICT.
Okay, then comes the accessible India campaign, which again has information communication, it's one of the very small uh
vertical, and uh it came out in the Gadget of India.
So let's go one by one into each of these.
UNCRPD has an article 9 on accessibility.
And accessibility calls for access to physical environment, transport, information and services.
So when you say information and services, both of them are looked at what you are doing information is the first perspective that we look at.
If we do e-commerce, anything.
If if I am buying uh medicine, if I am buying grocery, if I am buying food, clothing, anything.
You know each of these apps that we see today.
Nambataya Kuchosh, what are the apps?
Quickly.
Thank you to Matthew.
So back to sweeney,
Amazon, Subseyala Chatnewala or Uber.
Uber, yes, anyone?
Zapito.
Zapto, Zapto.
Up
you skipped the
Yes.
Next time when you look at it and just try to compare which are the apps which are very good and easy to use.
Ask your bredma and brandpa have to have a look at it and you will get the best answer, right?
Or ask children, you know, uh those four-five years age of children, and ask them
and you may know that Article 9 of Sasebe that calls for access to physical environment, transport, information services, is something that all the governments in the world have to abide by.
It also calls for full participation and inclusion in the society, and where is the baseline?
You know, I can say underline, bold, capital letters, under inverted commas, full participation
and inclusion.
And this is what you need to remember when you're designing next.
The fact-hook campaign and government of India is accessible in the campaign, and we are very proud that we made the target line strategies and the indicators for government of India at the suburbs.
So we worked for two years from 2013 to 2015 for two years to meet the entire strategy paper of accessibility campaign and there are three verticals.
One is the physical environment, which is looking at the building design, the second is the transportation ecosystem, which is looking at the transport and vehicles, and third is the most important is information to communication technology, ICT.
So here it will fall everything, even your media, you know, if you're looking at a TV, if you're looking at the OTT, how the system is designed that a person with visual impairment, hearing impairment, or with colour blindness, with cognitive disabilities, with any kind of neuromotor functional disability, everybody can use it.
Okay?
I only use Netflix.
Just one example.
So Netflix is something when you look at any of the movies or any of the web series, you can see and hear.
What about people who cannot hear?
They will just see the picture, but they can't read any caption if it is not here.
So the caption is something which is inbuilt.
Right?
We have seen those small captions, those are here, subtitles, captions.
This is an inbuilt system in Netflix, but no other OTTG app is doing that.
So if you go to Z or if you go to Sony or any other app, it's not here.
Even
Prime doesn't have for all the things.
So Netflix is one example which I want to give is a user-friendly universally designed meant for all, and this is what we need to do.
Okay, now coming to information communication ecosystem, something which I really want to highlight for your uh you know benefit is international organization for standardization, which is called ISO, under which we got the WCAT 2.0, the W3C web content accessibility guidelines and also that their laws which actually regulate these you know design standards to be more robust over the time.
So earlier we used to see VCR.
Remember
Shobuko Patha when you were here quite young.
When I was uh when I when I was in my teens we used to use C V C R So Sart movies Latate Ratman Kiyobika we need to seven movies together.
After that came.
So you need to write high for the case.
Yes.
So you get the cassettes and you saw the movies and you have whole night.
Then after that came the TVs with the set-down box.
And now is the OTT time.
So every time new thing comes in technology it has to remain accessible.
So that's the core line.
Okay?
So the laws, regular regulation, forms, brochures, everything that you design, national, some national governments have to look into it that becomes accessible.
And who demands for it?
We the people with disabilities demand for it.
And hence the Disability Act 2016, which I already talked about, identified three standards which are mandated in India: WCAG 2.1 and 2.2 levels ANAA, GMGW 3.0 guidelines.
My other colleagues are going to talk in detail.
They are going to explain into what all these matters to you.
And IS 17802 standards.
This is Indian standards by the BIS, Bureau of Indian Standards.
So they have got this latest guidelines 17802.
And you know what has happened?
Just day before yesterday.
I was there at the ministry, the ministry of social justice and empowerment, the nodal ministry that helps to put our rights together.
And it is called the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disability.
And I was talking to the regional secretary, and she said there's a Supreme Court order which came out last year.
And this last year order says all the guidelines will have to be scrapped.
All the guidelines have to be scrapped.
Because the guidelines are recommendatory and not mandatory.
Did you understand that?
So, guidelines to guide you.
Right?
But there's no control in terms of enforceability.
So, what we did as people with disabilities, we converted all the guidelines into standards.
And this is why the GIGW 3.0 guidelines are now converted into standards.
Standard for India.
How it looks
called the Gazette of India.
The Gazette of India mandates that all guidelines to be scrapped, only accessibility standards to be followed and if you don't follow, if you violate, please look at me everybody.
There's a five lakh rupees of chalan and two years of imprisonment for every individual who design a website or an app which is not accessible for persons with disabilities.
So everybody now has to give your ATM card, your debit card back to me.
Because if you're not accessible, we'll take you to the court.
It's not me.
It's
forty-eight crore people in the country demanding it.
It's a big, big, huge number.
Or Kandakya bought some balay.
There's a chief commissioner for persons with disabilities and there is an app called Sugam Bhagavat app.
You download the app, you just take the picture of the site, again, it's a site
So would the app
interface there, government websites and everybody will get to know that this particular site, this particular app, this particular system interface is not working.
So if you are not digitally accessible, five laktivities and two years of entrance.
Simple.
So there's a teach to the law?
We have to be very careful now.
And last year the sevi guidance came, you know, sevi guidance that all the brokers and whatever the kind of shares, mutual funds, whatever you do, BFCS, he knows better than me, everything, every portal, every app, every banking site has to be accessible.
And Radhika has been doing more than forty-five projects now with all these brokers and everybody coming forward.
All the state government's website, we have from Maharashtra we have Nasi Thane and
Bradikal, which we are working on.
Sari Pradesh.
SRA Radways, all the radio Chris, they have more than 79 websites.
Totally inaccessible we are working on that so everyone is looking at because there's a court order and the court order says if you don't do it then if there are five people working on a web if there are seven people working on a app, everybody has to pay five lakhs of rupees.
So now you know that there's yes please.
Yeah, uh the question is is there any date of uh
uh by when uh the websites and apps have to be compliant?
Yes.
The date is now.
So we have already crossed three dates, the timeline was increased because when the CB came came out with its uh first uh order notification, everybody was like,
What is accessibility?
Accessibility ka e ni a tata.
So everybody who wanted to look at the safety guidance and that's that's a WCAG G I G W and then they you know rolled out.
So the government of India has a paneled uh web accessibility auditors, we're one of them.
So they came back to us.
But for us also it was a magot to look at you know thousands and thousands of websites how to do it.
So what Sebi did was to extend the time and the last date was thirty first of March 2025.
Then it came to January 2026.
Last one, the latest one was 30th April 2026.
Yes.
So that's why you said down.
So up thirty but truly
unknown all day accessibility auditors for
easy deadline paid line
RBI back people looking for RBI but we have not increased the deadline, they have not uh surpassed it.
RBI has deadline.
That's what I'm saying.
Bank of Cat Ranking.
Provided the deadline speech that we are.
But
everybody is doing that and we are also using the educator.
But there is no deadline
by one
No RBI has released the deadline already way back, that's what I'm saying, but they have not given the timeline to comply with it.
But they are they have not provided a deadline
Then things will move.
My point is uh uh if you look at it uh I think and this is my assumption, 70 or 80 percent or maybe more uh of the websites and apps must be non-compliant.
More than that.
Yeah, more than that.
And a lot of them don't fall either in RVA or in CV or in under any regulatory like as like the matto uh I'm just naming the matto, they might be compliant, but there are so many apps.
So what's the framework for them to be compliant?
Because uh I don't know if they have been issued any uh uh summer or issued any
uh notice by government that we have to be compliant by students who take what is the framework for them?
So for any app as I said, any XYZ app or any portal, any digital interface, even for the OTT as I said for media there was a deadline till the 2017 June 2017 17 and nobody complied with it so what it has been done that the Ministry of Social Justice Empowerment under the Chief Commissioner Office for Persons with Disability, which we call CCPD, every CCPD has a state commissioner also.
So in Maharashtra also you will have a state commissioner.
What you uh what they have done is they have identified that all websites have to be accessible and they started with the government websites.
The government websites, 1100 websites were made accessible in 2023, but then there was there were
a committee like us, people like us have called as an expert, and we were sitting in that committee and we analyzed how many websites are still not done, and we found that thousands and thousands of them, including the apps and all.
So the state the chief committee of persons with disability has notified each and every entity, whether government or public or private or non-government, that they have to make their website accessible and it came out last year as I said.
The CB and the RBI rules get little extended because they were not many auditors and people did not have that understanding, but thank you to Pajaj Finals that you've got this kind of a workshop organized.
We did it for NASCOM, we did it for Google, we also did it for Infosys and Emphasis as well, and then checkback.
So there were many uh uh training which have got undergone so that you guys become auditors.
You become because it is an in-house capacity which is important.
So every time a third party cannot come into interface, the only thing what you can do is is which I can put on record is that once you start doing your apps and designs of your website, if you are stuck anywhere, we are very much we are offered of us to guide you.
We'll hand hold you.
Uh Radhika is doing auditing of many of the websites.
She can even guide you in what kind of she will be having one session on what kind of three uh you know processes on there.
There's another colleague of ours, Guru, who is going to join online.
He also guide through that process.
If you are stuck anywhere, we leave your numbers with you.
You can always come back to us.
We are going to certify you also.
Right?
So the certification said that you are not as you are not certified as an accessibility auditor of our website but you will be certified as trainers of uh website auditors or app auditors right so as I said in one day we cannot fix things and we cannot train you in one day.
But what we understand that uh the nuances of accessibility, which is something you can take forward.
Okay.
Yeah.
Uh one more thing.
Uh have you utilized AI for auditing purposes because for you it must be a huge task to audit uh you know such a large volume of uh website and apps, uh especially banking, right?
They have tens of thousands of URLs to So I think that will be a very good use case for uh uh you specifically to just conduct audit uh of laps of URLs in a single day.
Yeah, so Ranhita can answer that..
Yeah Uh that will be addressed in the second session.
Basically we do uh yeah that's a very good question which we have asked.
So we cover three levels of testing and the automatic testing comprises of uh enormous amount of URLs.
It covers from top to bottom to left to right.
First of all, the scope will be considered for any website.
We will list down all the URLs in one particular website and that, will be uh tested through the automatic testing.
So we have different tools for that, and what we are using is a license tool so that it can capture more and more errors rather than the free tools.
So similarly we do manual testing where we have manual testers using different assistive devices like screen reader, MVD and all the other tools.
And the third level of testing is that where we will reach out to a representative of a person with disabilities.
So we have in-house team where who is a person with visual impaired, hearing impaired, and uh the person who are locomotive disability.
So they will uh screen the website by testing the sample uh URLs and then they will see what are the uh how how effectively it is accessible.
And they will give the result as like pass or fail for each criteria, and as a whole, so we will see whether it is compatible like, almost it should cross more than 90%.
Okay, then only we will issue the certificate.
So we have a uh system which is in place, like how we do the testing, and then finally uh and it is like a cycle uh you know process.
So first we'll do the iteration one, then the the developer will mitigate, then they'll come again, then we will mitigate again.
So it's like it's a continuous cycle.
So until unless we achieve hundred percent we will keep doing it.
So just to answer
between two months at least.
Yeah, four to six weeks is something what we uh look forward to a mild or medium kind of a uh website, but it could be complex website that can take eight to ten weeks also.
But these all these questions what you have just asked and many others might have in their mind, they are going to be answered today.
And Radhika is going to present and then Guru has I said, one of our other colleagues going to present, you can ask them questions after every session.
And this is something which I really want to put on record, it's not a rocket science.
It's just the understanding of the kind of disabilities as I talked about and also putting the user first
requirement.
Okay, so you will be able to crack all these things together.
The tools are very much available.
Only thing is people don't know that there are steps to it.
So using an automatic toolboard radical search is not just enough.
Most of the people are doing that, you know, like a couple of SEVI brokers and regulators, they sign an MOU with us.
So they said we'll get back to you with everything and you know and then they found their automatic tools.
So they hired those tools or rented or maybe bought that tools and then they stopped.
They don't know there's a second phase to it, what Radika said, is the manual testing and finally the user testing, which is the bottom line.
Unless the users get certified and they say it is done, it is not passed, it is not failed, it is passed now.
Till that time it is not accessible.
So this is part of the accessibility auditing that we are talking about.
Okay, so if there are no other questions, shall we proceed?
Yeah?
Alright.
So the compliance and standards ecosystem requires three kind of uh standards to be looked at.
The government of India maintains the Indian uh websites to be uh you know overarching compliance to look at from GIGW three point zero perspective and under that we come the IS17802 and then it's finally followed by WCAG 2.1 and 2.2 levels.
So all these three standards have to be followed, it's just not that one that you see to WCAG and you think you are compliant.
No, because the government of India wants to look at the GIGW3.0 standards as well.
So when you look at this guidance, these are very much available online.
You can look at it, download it, and see that your interfaces, your digital designs, everything passes to these standards.
Okay, is that okay?
Alright, so I am going to give this presentation also to Mari so that it just it comes to you so you'll get all the things together.
But still you have any questions please do ask us.
Yes.
This G I G W is it applicable only to the Indian government websites or
if you're talking about a Sumato app or a Sweden app, it applies here.
But if you talk about any international app, like if you have Amazon India, it applies, but Amazon Globe, it doesn't.
Okay.
So we if if it is not accessible, we cannot sue them in the court of India.
But if Amazon India is not compliant, then we can sue them in the court of India.
Am I clear?
Yes.
Right.
Um
specifically to GHGW because it's mentioned guidelines for Indian government represents.
That's what I'm saying.
So eventually it can apply to all the private entities.
All the private entities.
Yeah.
So whatever is running in India, it becomes part of the law, the Rights of Persons with Disability Act.
The RPW Act is very clear about it, whether it's a public or a private.
Any entity has to undergo the requirements under the law.
So it's what we call it in a layman's language is law of the land applies to these.
So if I am in Switzerland, and if I look at the Indian website and if I ask them to sue, they won't.
Similarly, in India, if I want to sue somebody who's outside Asia, it won't.
But the guidelines, any of these uh websites with the government or
private will apply it.
GIGW is the Indian standards, not an international standards.
Okay?
Is it a subset of WCAG?
It is, sort of, yes.
Because most of our partners like most of uh we talked about uh WCAD with our partner and our system company.
They hired the LCD, they have mostly focusing on this last one.
That's what I said.
Nobody's talking about our so that is wrong.
So if this is compliant and you don't get a certification for this till under your guidance of uh the law that the penalty applies to.
So you have to undergo these two as well.
But these partners who are conducting this uh RAID which is actually certified by the government of India, we have not talked about about the only
When you're saying partners you are talking about empanal agencies.
That's wrong.
That's what I'm saying.
That's called a VPAT certification
problems is last month.
No, see Gig W three point oh is a standard by India and it is also following the same international guidelines what WCAG two point one is all about.
And they have considered that those guidelines only., especially 21 AA because it's mandatory.
The same guidance has been mentioned in the butt that's a separate document that's all for India.
This is to be certified for, this has to be followed, but this actually, what she is saying, this exists here, but the what empires are not doing, they are not providing a certificate for this and this, which you have to do.
Okay, so if they are just following this then you are having the last interface but these two are omitted, it will be the violation of the law.
So exactly for the submit, see these partner
They have to follow this as well.
This is what I'm saying.
If they are not following, then then it is incomplete.
So if you get void as the BAP report, so that means that they are uh consider they have to be able to go inside the spreadsheet and see whether these two are applied with or not.
Right?
So the VPAT report has to be compliance of all three of these.
This is the final one for short, but there are certain nuances or tools which have to be followed as well.
These two as well.
Okay, but this is only applied in India and not outside India.
WCH is applied globally, that's why people are aware of it.
Now this is again very important.
I'm not repeating it, but I'm just coming to the understanding that we do not omit it.
Who are we designing for?
Individuals with visual impairments.
Anything that we can think of and be discussed.
Individuals with auditory impairments, deafness, hearing loss, it could be speech and uh you know speech and impairment, speech loss as well as people who stab.
So all things all these things will come under the auditory impairments.
Individuals with motor disabilities, difficulty using mouse or keypad.
Individuals with cognitive disabilities which comprise of learning disabilities, memory issues, which is you know like they don't remember.
And sometimes uh which I also felt in couple of you know websites, I don't remember often which ones, if I'm just trying to fill up a form, you know, they ask for address and something, by the time I can go to the next, the whole thing goes away.
You know, the whatever I type, it goes away.
It just vanishes.
I don't know what's wrong with that.
Again, you re-type and retype, and people having you know uh difficulty in motor disabilities or people like using cognitive disabilities, it's very difficult to repeat again and again.
Individuals with speech disabilities, people with situational limits limitations like temporary injury, noise environment, people who cannot uh you know uh do self-care, people who have memory loss, dementia and many other things.
So that's not part of the disability, but this is part of the situational limitations.
Aging processes, very important.
So we all talked about this, but sometimes what we do is when we are designing, sometimes we even if we miss out one disability type or even one person, that means your interface is not accessible.
Yes please.
Motor disability, right?
That you have for some and I mean we have put on the screen.
After some time it disappears again, they have to manually input the entire information which they have provided.
Uh for example from security perspective, you know the point regarding OTP.
It is only valid for a particular amount of time.
Yes.
So in that case what should be.
Yeah.
So we have to under I'll just give you this example uh with uh very uh something which is very easy understandable.
You have seen a lift door, even a lift door here in this building, right?
The closing time of the lift door should be tuned so much so that person who is entering or exiting with a locomotive disability should not be catching between the timing.
So what we did was tune the timing, asking couple of mock-ups to be done with people with different kind of disabilities and we tuned the timing to saying that 25 seconds is a time for a late closing time.
Nobody did it for the OTV.
So sometimes you know when I'm using a credit card, I just want to put on record like an MX American Express credit card it it gives me a timing of more than 25 seconds sometimes 30 seconds it's a very good timing because by the time i reach out to my mobile, I pick it up, the uh OTP comes and I feed it into the system.
It takes me a little bit of a while, even now.
If you see lifting up my mobile is a task.
So I pick it up, I switch it on, I look at it, by the time I see it, 20 seconds gone.
So do a user testing, it's very important.
How much time do we take?
Nobody did it.
American Express, why I'm using that card as an example because they did it.
Aadhar.
You know just look at you have to take an online adhar.
See how much time?' Its just seven to eight seconds.
Sometimes I get mad with it.
By the time I you know it's open then it I it's it's gone.
So you have to be very careful what you do.
Take a user into consideration.
And how do you do it?
Very simple.
We call it simulation.
You get the cellul tape, the tape that you have at home when we are putting a little thing.
Bind your fingers.
Two fingers together, two fingers together.
So you know it's a new quota functions that we say.
And now you try to uh punch the keys and try to pick up the phone.
See how much time you take.
And that's you, you can do it.
And this is how it's done.
So then what we do is we just need to write to the government of India.
And tell them that this is the time and this is how the standards are designed.
Okay?
Did I answer your question?
Okay, thank you.
So it's it's as I said the life cycle approach.
Start from a child to a person who is a super senior citizen and the people who are here we are designing for whom.
At the end of the day, the word that I coin is that we are designing for ourselves.
We are all getting old.
And with the aging process, there may be hearing, walking, learning, remembering, vision, not many losses will happen.
And we are not going to remain done forever.
Are we?
You have the formula?
Please share with us.
All three of us want to run uh uh remain young forever we don't have it so design for yourself okay all right a big yes yes
people seem to be sleepy.
Big yes?
Yes.
I can just only hear the girls.
Yes?
Yes.
Better.
Do you need an exercise?
Which Exercise?
They are all this job for exercises.
Come in the center.
Yes, you can have the candy, but you can stand up also, all of you, and this exercise can happen throughout the day.
Radhikoska Samai Kuram.
Yes, old people in the center, I know you need a lot of massage, shoulder massage.
So what is the spelling of digital?
D S G I
G I.
G I, G I, no, the are we won't go for your company, sorry.
Here's a shareholder in uh bhajajan and you know since yesterday he's been teasing us my Aliku as a What do you mean?
He is a shareholder.
Do we go by digital?
Okay, so what DC sir is going to do, you have to repeat.
He's going to use his right elbow and right D.
Capital.
D, yes.
Then comes eye.
Troose the font size.
Increase the font size.
Then comes A
and then L.
Get your left hand now.
D.
Increase the font size.
I
No no, it's not over.
With your waste.
D.
No no not the legs.
Just a waist.
D.
G.
I.
Sir.
I
Okay.
Okay, so let's just quickly finish this up before we pay for the team.
Alright everybody, one screen, the main screen.
Let's come back to what DC Sir just did.
He talked about the big fonts, the large ponds, right so when we look at what we are designing we look at four words
and it's called four P O U R Have you heard about it no
No.
Alright, still very few, less than 10%.
So for is a methodology that we use by designing the best accessibility of the digital interfaces.
P is for perceivable, which means can the user sense it?
We as designers, what we do is we look at perceivability means for you it might say see it.
Right?
Am I right?
Yes.
So can we see it is not the right question.
Can we sense it is the right motion.
Perceivable information and user interfaces components must be presentable to users in a way that they can perceive it.
Right?
That means they can sense it.
Screen reading software is one of the examples, but there are other assistive technologies, and we are going to cover into all the day.
Operable.
Can the user interact with it?
So I remember somebody said interactive, right?
When we're saying accessibility, and this is very important interaction, otherwise, we get bored like the way I was talking about the law and we start explicitly.
Correct?
So operability comes with interaction and interaction is more important to understand like how we navigate through it.
So it's like going to the home page, then coming to who about who, then going to what all are the login pages, the plugins and all the you know panels, flashes, whatever.
And finally we are looking for contactors.
Correct?
We have a complaint, we have a grievance, we have a dress, we have to go to contactors and that is very important.
So, how you operate it, where are all the details provided, and we'll be doing some of the demos today to find out where we are.
The third part is understandable.
Can the user comprehend it?
So when I say life cycle approach, the comprehension part is very important.
And there are also you know people who have a very short span of attention.
So is it too much intimate that they are not able to you know comprehend it or is it going to a different link, different page and then you get the required information.
This is how we design.
And finally, robust.
Does it work across technologies?
For example, whenever we say the app to be designed, the first thing that we put that it should be compatible with the iOS and the Android.
Right?
Pala
iOS Android compatibility.
Second number
mobile, tab, laptop, and desktop.
It's a compatibility.
But what is beyond that?
So the robust part of is also looking at a wide variety of users as agents, including assistive technology.
And we are going to show you screen reading software, the cascade used container.
And there are many other things.
Like I'll give you an example, Pac-Mate.
Pac-Mate is a small device, the smaller than this, it's like a tab.
In fact, sometimes smaller than a tab.
And it's a folding type.
So on one side of the Packet are digital keys, the keys that you punch in with a brain symbol on it.
You know brain?
Yes.
Everybody?
Who uses brain?
People visually visually.
People who are totally blind.
So visual impairment has two categories, three categories, we talked about it.
So people who are totally blind will use a brain, and brain is something which is taught in schools and it has to be learned, right?
It cannot be something that you without learning, you can use the brain.
For you, there are six dots.
But for a reader, it means alpha builds, numericals, and beyond that.
So the keypad which I punch will be brain on the other side.
What you see the screen here it is written HP here right on the other side of the screen will be the digital content which will be another screen here.
So what I type as methodology P O U R by punching the braille keys, the packet has a screen on your side so you can read.
So I'm as a blind person, I'm back typing those, you can see it.
And on your side, also there will be another keypad, which is a normal keypad, the one that you use with acceptables and you know the micles.
You punch in your information when you're punching it, so if you're writing yes understood, Y E S.
So when you type Y on the other side, the the Y key on my side with the brain will pop up.
So my hand as a blind person is on a key and when the y pop ups I know you tell yes y then on this e then I get the e popped up so I read it out yes you said yes understood, and that's fine.
So the packet is a device which is used by persons who are deafplied.
And deafblight can only do tactile, that is a feel of touch, tactile, cannot see, cannot hear, cannot talk.
Challenging, but the assistive technology, the Pacman gives them the empowerment to communicate with others.
Is it clear?
So you cannot say that I left one person behind who is deafblind.
You cannot.
You have to design your interface in a way that yes, understood can be so simple on your designing that the person when they are doing this kind of a communication, they know what they are talking about.
Am I clear?
And the deaf plan is as I said, is one of the most challenging disabilities.
We are all the senses are lost except the feeling.
Okay, alright.
Now moving forward, what we are trying to understand on digital accessibility from principles to practice.
So, from for principles, when we are talking about the four pillars of accessibility port, P O U R, we are trying to convert it into an assessment design which is being monitored.
So what he said right now when people are using just WCAG, it's not the right you know compatibility in terms of accessibility compliance.
We need to undergo all the other guidelines standards which are there for India, and we need to monitor that each and every website or app which has been given a certification or VPAT report and a certification underpost this.
I'll show you one of the certification that we give it to our clients.
That is
a VPA report.
That's what I'm saying.
If they found any gap, do they take any action on
So if it brings to the notice of the CCP, the chief commissioner for persons will disappear now you told me I'll go up silently with you in a corner and ask who are the parallel engines and so we're not doing it.
No, no, I'm just telling you as a joke, uh we are the people who need to monitor it.
That's what I'm saying.
We have to go beyond the design and beyond the standards and the guidelines.
So the first part is the assessment, which is the auditing that you do.
The second is the design when it falls into place.
You fix the things, you have to re-medify it, right?
Which Radika is going to talk about the auditing and the uh design fixing, and finally the monitoring.
What we lack right now with that for SNT part is the monitoring of the VPAP report that we are shooting up.
Does it cover all history?
If not then we are still lacking that.
What government of India is trying to do right now is to attain this part at least to begin with.
But government of India saying you need to get your website and have audited by this certified uh auditorship of audit or panel access to panel partners.
They conduct the audit, they provide us an impact report.
Uh we as a company need to blame on them if you
as a train auditor, they have already conducted concerning all these guidelines and everything they have conducted the audit and provided the VPAD report.
But if RGA comes and check for that VPAD report, if they still find out any gap
So sir, I'll I'll answer your question very briefly and just to make you understand the auditors that has been finalized till now including us are IE IEAP certified?
IAEP is an international certification agency where they are looking at WCEG as a compliance.
Why what we are actually now putting up with the government of India, just as I said, I had a meeting day before yesterday with the AS on Friday, in fact.
I talked about having parallel accessibility auditors who undergo BIS certification, not an IAP certification.
I don't want to open up the Pandora box.
The only problem is that an international agency, international agency that certifies IAP auditors, but we want an Indian certification authority.
Only thing is that the BI is still not yet geared up with the standard, hence we are lagging BI.
But what we are putting up is that we should have Indian certification system.
Eurofunding standard.
That's where the IS standard comes into.
picture So we are wanting that the in-house standard should be there.
We want in-house capacity.
If we have an in-house capacity in terms of the instead of IAP but uh BIS certified orders, we'll have lakhs of them and we'll be able to get rid of all the uh digital interfaces that we have in India.
Abhiya Marapas kun na yeah, Isliha WCAGP to Badja.
But what Samatham is doing is what Radha is going to show is that we are applying all these things because both over is being built there.
It's an under the scope we write down all these guidelines and we'll make sure that some of the points are already considered in the right.
Okay.
So I am not saying they are wrong, but I am also saying they are not right.
Maybe they are considering all these characters but generally they talked about WCD, W C D, W C D.
Because that's what I is talking about.
That's right.
And the other yeah.
Is this understandable
the whole whole challenge of just not doing the assessment which is the auditing we are what we are talking about right now but the design uh fixing and then the monitoring part of it.
So it's a combination of three things so that we don't have any other barriers which look at the WCAG non-compliance.
Okay?
Alright.
Okay.
Now I come to a very very important thing when we say the board, the perceivable, operable, understandable, and robust.
We need to see that we are putting it into our design systems, but also get it assessed.
It's not auditing assessed.
So assessed is kind of a simulation that you take it to different users and ask them kidko boss.
Are you happy with it or not?
Ask the women also.
Right?
Because sometimes you know it's the male world, the digital world is a male world.
It's not about jandi.
It's as I said, it should be comprehensible, which is very important.
So take it to different kinds of user, different age groups, and ask them whether your design works for you or not.
So uh just to end the just the the conversation that we just had, to end to end all in pipeline, how to go about it.
Stop.
Before you design, think about the users.
So the step one would be to define the bounce of the audit, target pages, and user flow.
So this is very important that we start from the step one which is the which is the bottom line and take how you go through it.
Usually when you come to a new website what you do big
exclude.
Explode.
And
sorry?
Logging.
Sometimes there are logging memberships, pages, val whereues you uh there are certain pages which are you know uh visible to all the public but there are certain pages we have to go deep down so you have to log in.
What else?
Check out the features.
Sorry?
Check out the features which is exploring.
Yeah.
And
think about the user flow, you are the user.
New website, calc or away.
Deal, operate it.
Read it.
Understand.
First two lines are important, the first impression is the last impression, something which catches you, captivates you, tempts you to go forward, right?
Tempt.
The tempt word comes with attempt
you attempting to go to a website explore it understand the features but what you are trying to do is going deep down into it into each page
so it's just not the visual appearance but also the content.
So content is very important.
So explore is also about content.
Is there too much or is there too little?
Sometimes you know some websites here say only two, three pages.
Content in yet just for the namesake, because there's somebody who wants to open it up with
a boss of the website.
And sometimes there's so much of content which I won't be throwing in the afternoon.
Oh my god, too much.
Sama jingara.
Correct?
Step two is test.
This is a part of the auditing where you have the you know execute a live website apps club AK go through different kind of processes which is automatic, manual and user, navigate through it and use uh automated scanning tools to find out aha barrier, what are the challenges, where it fails that comes off.
The step three is identified if you classify them into different kind of categories: critical, major, minor.
So when Rajika said that 80-90% compliance is required for auditing and putting up a VPAT report as a certification, 90%
is acceptable.
10% 90 work.
By this 50% accessible acceptable at the overall.
10%
design foundation, you are not able to fix the bug.
So if I give an example of the website that we recently used
website, Uno
platform
website, we couldn't fix it till the end.
So we have to leave it at 85% accessible.
15% could not happen.
In spite of four to five iterations, user testing, but failing.
So automatic testing is not where you leave, you go beyond it.
That's one different kind of study.
Then you create a report which we just talked about the pseudonym.
We created a report and we gave a scoring.
We then go back to you know whether they are compliant with WCAD rules or not.
If not, then we again do an iteration, ask the developer to fix it up, they refixes it, it comes back to the orders again and we again validate it and we see that the suspend is correct.
Other party hasn't rajata may validate.
It's good to go.
And finally, when the re medification is done, whenever you upload a new material, a new picture, new content, again you see that you don't repeat the mistakes.
Now through the process 1 to 4, you learnt already kahatiare.
Whether there's a picture without an all text.
Right?
If you are doing that, then don't repeat it, please.
Because unless uh you learn from your mistakes and you keep repeating it.
We go back to step one because the whole website will be inaccessible because of one picture that you uploaded and you forgot to give the alt text to it.
Or maybe you made a PDF of a you know anything um any information and you just forgot to make it accessible
okay is the process clear we may be talking about in detail but I'm just giving you an overarching picture.
What happens usually?
So while we are building the unbroken path, we need to know that any of these, you know, the content that we are designing, if you miss out one chain, one part of it, if you're doing one and two correct but you missed out the three, then the whole chain will be broken.
Right?
So it's a vicious cycle.
Each and every part has to be fixed, and then we finally reach out to saying that we are accessible.
So this is all from my end.
If there are any questions, we are good to take.
No more?
Everything is understood?
You will be able to do justice to your assessments?
Assignment?
Perfect.
Okay.
Let's make break for tea.
You'll fit straight, Radika?
Yes.
Yeah.
So we'll have ten minutes break?
This is okay?
Yeah.
Ten to fifteen maximum.
Okay?
Because we're running later but couple of more slides all right see you after the break
No,
I don't think
it's well basically
a captain with the eighty hour.
Hello are you phone sorry I was alone?
Uh
yeah, I think
I can
go
into the